NodeJS
======

What is NodeJS?
    NodeJS is a very popular server side development runtime that is build on Chrome's V8 JS Engine
    It uses Node Package Manager, NPM, to add packages from a huge ecosystem of open source code that are created by other developers for use (Express, Authenticate, Mongoose, Nodemon, etc.)
    
    Node is how JavaScript is ran on the server side.
    
Why NodeJS?
    Node is very popular currently, and because of that there is a large community of support and bug fixing with new powerful pieces of code being added every day.
    But that's not the main reason.
    
    NodeJS is a high performance back end technology, why it is high performance is complicated, but it is and that makes it good.
    It's also in JS! The familiarity with JS closes the learning gap between front end and back end and makes stacks much more uniform to developers.
    
It doesn't matter (long term)
    Eventually, the development environment will change. Web development is a fast moving field, and there's tons of tech out there that is in use, theres those that have faded out,
    and there those that are taking the field by storm. Learning web dev isn't about knowing a specific language or framework, it's about a more meta understanding of how things operate,
    and keeping up with development trends in the field. NodeJS is a great place to start learning.
    
    
Using Node
----------

    Interacting with the Node consoless
        Node has its own version of the console in the command line utility, and javascript commands can be executed.
            Honestly, it's not super useful. But that's ok.
        Open it by typing node, CTRL+C twice or CTRL+D to quit
            REPL: Read, Evaluate, Print, Loop
        Not every JS functionality is available
            While this is JS, it does not have access to browser-based functions, like alert() or prompt(). 
            The DOM, selectors, manipulation tools, event listeners, etc. are NOT a part of node, and are not available since node is server-side
            
    Running a file with Node
        A JS file can be created and executed in the command line (without a browser) in the node command line. 
            node <filename> // Tries to execute the file provided
    
Node Package Manager (NPM)
--------------------------

    What is NPM?
    
        NPM is a package manager for node/javascript, a tool used to get packages that can be used with node to add verbose functionality to a project.
            A package is basically a library, it's a set of code that someone wrote to provide functionality without the need to hand code
            
    Why is NPM so great?
    
        All packages are centralized on the npm website, npmjs.com 
        Node command line has a tool called npm that allows you to simply enter a package name and it will add it to your project (provided it is on npmjs.com)
        
    What packages will be used in this course?
    
        Packages need to be installed inside a directory in which they will be used, typically the root project directory for any given project.
        Installing a package will create a node_modules directory, this is where all packages are kept.
        To import a module, var <some var name> = require('some package name>");
            This will import the package into your file and set whatever the export of the package module is to the variable given.